There have been multiple instances in engineering where I have had to manage a large project. In ENGG3000 I was responsible for a team creating a Rube Goldberg style machine. While the machine had no meaningful purpose, I had to manage working with engineers from multiple backgrounds and specialties. 
One of the main problems I encountered is effective team utilisation. Identifying and utilising skills from other team members is tricky, not properly delegating tasks or poor communication channels can lead to wasted potential and wasted workload. Another big issue was accountability, many team members would assume another member of the team would do all the work resulting in nobody achieving anything. These issues ended up nearly killing our project, with very little of the end product being produced. I learned that it's important to first determine the skills of your team and compare them to the goals of the project. Many team members were underutilised by working purely on documentation and not contributing to the development of the project itself, as a result design work was not done on time and important functionality tests were left till last minute. I also learned to be more strict with deadlines and following up on work. Many team members would be given a task and fail to complete it before the due date that was set, I would often do the task myself instead of following up and communicating with the team member.
These experiences were frustrating, although we didn't fail the unit we definitely failed in producing the end product. Much of the 