
￼￼UNI 2022/ENGG2000/Attachments/2108_SPINE Professional Development Activities_v1.0.pdf￼￼

1.  ￼￼Topic for reflection: What is the transferable skills/employability skill topic you will be reflecting on? Refer to the reflection/professional development pdf for suggested topics suitable to your year level.

Perseverance, urgency and will to deliver, resourcefulness and flexibility
During week 12, it was clear that the project was behind in both construction and assembly. Much of this was my fault due to poor communication skills and starting late on the construction of the circuit. Many of my team members were understandably caught up in other units and assignments, and as such were unable to put aside time outside of class to work on the project. The circuitry needed to be soldered to the PCB and installed in the box, the code also needed to be adjusted and calibrated in-situ in order to ensure it was functional. All testing needed to be performed as well. In order to achieve this task, both myself and another motions team member came in to 44 Waterloo Road on a Friday outside of class to install and calibrate the system. We also solved a number of oversights in the code and structure of the box. As a result the box was assembled and tested fully, and all that was left was for comms to fully implement the code. It was a stressful week given that the project came together very late into the semester, and there was a lot of work to do in a very short amount of time. The extra time spent on campus to organise the project was incredibly useful, and I am grateful for my team members being able to support each other during the rush to get everything done. In future, I will prioritise starting early and planning out a project in full, even if its a simple outline, to ensure there isn't the same rush at the end. Clear and open communication channels are also a priority, it was a struggle to get a hold of other members of my team as well as comms and structures. Finding a common system of communication that everyone will use is also a critical priority in the beginning.

